Category: [[0300a000 - The Rules of Engagement]]
Tags:
Last Updated: 07-21-2022

# [[0300a001 - Understanding Combat]]

## Understanding Skill Checks
A comphrensive breakdown and explanation of the conceptual meaning behind each of the Skills can be found in [[0200a005 - Determining Your Skills]]. As your hero experiences the living and breathing world of My Hero Academia, they will often have to prove themselves through their actions. A Skill Check refers to any roll made by a player to determine the relative success or failure of an action that their character performs in the world. While the threshold for success or failure is ultimately up to the thematic needs of the Gamemaster, the degree to which success or failure of an action manifests is generated by rolling a d20 and adding the modifier of the Skill associated with that action. Again, how the results of a given Skill Check manifests in the world is determined explicitly by the Gamemaster, although they may choose to rule according to a binary "pass-or-fail" philosophy or a more nuanced "success-with-consequences" philosophy. And although Gamemasters usually have the final say, this balance should be discussed by parties to narrow in on the kind of experience all players envision.

### Understanding Criticals
In the world of My Hero Academia, the abilities of individuals are heightened to fit the heroic and epic tone of the media. If the stars align, even perfectly normal individuals can be capable of incredible displays of power. Individuals that possess Quirks can repeat such feats reliably and frequently based on their experience. 

In the MHA system, this remains true. Additionally, in situations where two opposing individuals roll competing checks, a "critical" is achieved when either one generates a value that is 10 more than the generated value of the opponent. The various circumstances where Criticals may occur and the implications of those are described throughout the following sections.

Criticals only apply in combat.

### Understanding Naturals
In many table-top roleplaying systems, there is the idea of special values that award a player either extreme success or extreme failure. In d20 systems, the outtermost values in its range (or "1" and "20") represent these "critical" values.  While the significance of these values are maintained in the MHA system, they are do not fall under the "critical" terminology as described above. That is because, in the context of this system, a value of "1" or "20" represents more of the influence of luck or misfortune. These are known as "naturals" in the MHA system.

Thematically, "naturals" represent the ebb and flow of a character's relationship with the unseen systems of the world. When a character performs a Skill Check and the value is a "natural", then their normal modes of operation are overriden and they instead channel the spirit of heroism (or villainy) to guide them.

When the value of the Skill Check is a "20", the character might suddenly feel mystifyingly justified in their behavior--as if some unseen force is acknowledging that they are following the path meant for them. When this happens, the character peforming the check earns a Plus Ultra Point.

When the value of the Skill Check is a "1", the character's reliance on instinct betrays them and they must draw upon a force greater than themselves to recover from its consequences. When this happens, the character performing the check must expend a Plus Ultra Point if they are able to and then reroll the check. If the resulting value of the reroll is another "1", the character performing the reroll is _not_ required to roll again.

Naturals only apply outside of combat.

### Understanding Ties
A tie occurs in situations where two opposing characters are rolling competing checks and the same value is generated by both characters.

In situations where an attacker ties against a defender who has taken the "Dodge" Defensive Action, the defender takes half of the damage dealt by the attacker and the defender is able to expend their full movement.

In situations where an attacker ties against a defender who has taken the "Tank" Defensive Action, the defender takes half of the damage dealt by the attacker but the defender does not gain advantage on their next action made against the attacker.

In situations where the attacker utilizing mental techniques ties against a defender, the defender takes half damage but the attack does not suffer the loss of their next action. With the same condition described previous, but the tie is achieved through the application of modifiers and one of the parties initially rolled a "1", then that party does not suffer a Negative Effect.

In situations where a character ties while making a Skill Check against a static threshold as determined by a mechanic within the system, the tie always goes to that static threshold.

## Understanding Damage
### Understanding Damage Dice
### Understanding Critical Damage

##  Understanding Status Effects
### Understanding Buffs & Debuffs

## Understanding the Action Economy
All TTRPGs incorporate the idea of dinstict allotments of time passing with each structural element of combat that govern the thematic tensions that system desires to achieve. For example, the very popular D&D5e establishes a _Action-Bonus Action-Reaction_ flow that all participants follow. Regardless of the number of participants, all this action takes place within a "Round" about six seconds in duration. However, MHA takes a looser approach to this flow in the name of enabling more dynamic and spontaneous play.

### Understanding Actions
In the context of the MHA system, combat is governed instead by an _Action-Action-Action_-_Defensive Action_ flow. That is, a character is allotted a maximum of three actions that they may perform on their turn, along with a special action that may be taken in response to an attack made against that character when it isn't their turn. The first thing to notice about this flow is that this is not an immediately prescriptive formula. This is designed to encourage a character in the field to think more creatively and abstractly about their options. However, there are still some caviates to this flow.
- Any number of actions may be spent on **Movement**.
- Any number of actions may be spent on **Trained Techniques**.
- Any number of actions may be spent on **Interactions with Objects**.
- Only 1 action may be spent on **Freeform Techniques**.

**TODO: Exchange one Action on your turn for an additional Reaction that carries into the next round.** 

### Understanding Movement

| Speed Rank | Combat Speed | Cinematic Speed  |
|------------|--------------|------------------|
| Rank E     | 3 Meters     | 3-6 Meters       |
| Rank D     | 7 Meters     | 6-12 Meters      |
| Rank C     | 15 Meters    | 12-72 Meters     |
| Rank B     | 30 Meters    | 72-108 Meters    |
| Rank A     | 50 Meters    | 108-1500 Meters  |
| Rank S     | 75 Meters    | 1500-5000 Meters |

### Understanding Trained Techniques

### Understanding Freeform Techniques

### Understanding Defensive Actions
#### Understanding Dodging
#### Understanding Tanking
#### Understanding Critical Defensive Actions
**Dodging**
You gain a single free action.

**Tanking**
You take no damage from the incoming attack.

### Understanding Interactions with Objects

### Understanding Reactions


### Understanding Instinct Order

