Category: [0300 - The Rules of Engagement](0300%20-%20The%20Rules%20of%20Engagement.md)  
Tags: #rules-of-engagement #combat   
Last Modified: 06-17-2035  
# Mastering Combat

1. [Skill Checks](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#skill-checks)
	- [Criticals](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#criticals)
	- [Naturals](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#naturals)
	- [Ties](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#ties)
2. [Damage](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#damage)
	- [Damage Dice](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#damage-dice)
	- [Critical Damage](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#critical-damage)
3. [Status Effects](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#status-effects)
	- [Concentration](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#concentration) 
	- [Preparation](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#preparation)
4. [Action Economy](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#action-economy)
	- [Actions](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#actions)
	- [Techniques](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#techniques)
		- [Trained Techniques](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#Trained%20Techniques)
		- [Freeform Techniques](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#Freeform%20Techniques)
		- [Concentration](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#Trained%20Techniques)
	- [Reactions](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#reactions)
	- [Instinct Order](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#instinct-order)
	- [Defensive Actions](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#defensive-actions)
	- [Movement](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#movement)
	- [Interactions](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#interactions)
5. [Grave Checks](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#grave-checks)
6. [Downtime](0310%20Mastering%20Combat.md#downtime)

## Skill Checks

The basis for all acts of heroism or villainy in the world of *My Hero Academia* lies in how a person's talents and trainings contribute to the success or failures of the actions that they carry out throughout their careers. As your character experiences the living, breathing world, they will often have to prove themselves through their actions.

A **Skill Check** refers to any roll made by a player to determine the relative success or failure of any action that their character performs in the world, with the threshold being determined by the Gamemaster. Unless otherwise stated, the successfulness of an action is determined by the sum of the value generated by the roll of a d20 and the modifier of the Skill associated with the type of action being performed.

The exact way the results of a given Skill Check manifest in the world is determined by the Gamemaster. They may opt for a specific rule for accomplishing this, such as implementing a "pass-or-fail" threshold or a more nuanced "success-with-consequences" philosophy to fit the thematic needs of the story. In any case, the balance should be discussed with the players to ensure that expectations are set and there is no ill-will in how events may play out for the players.

### Criticals

The world of *My Hero Academia* is marked by the constant struggle between those who would use their supernatural strength for the good of their peers and those that would use that same strength to exploit their peers for their own benefit. Competition is a frequent aspect life for the characters, and the balance of power is ever shifting.

A **Critical** refers to the additional condition which is applied in any scenario where two characters make opposing Skill Checks against each other and the difference between the two results (after modifiers are applied) is 10 or more. In such cases, the character associated with the lower value may suffer an additional impairment or the character associated with the higher value may gain an additional boon in the aftermath of the Skill Check. The exact assignment or nature of the impairment or boon is left to the determination of the Gamemaster.

Criticals only apply in combat.

### Naturals

In the world of *My Hero Academia*, the spirit of heroism dwells inside of everyone. Even normal people can be capable of incredible displays of power while Heroes and Villains that possess Quirks or the proper rigorous trainings experience the upper limit of their abilities every day, replicating incredible feats in the most simplistic of actions. Yet, even the mightiest can fall to a miscalculation.

A **Natural** refers to the scenario in which the value generated by a Skill Check (prior to the modifiers being applied) is a 20 or a 1. In the case of a value of 20, the player that performed the Skill Check receives one Plus Ultra Points. Then, the value is interpreted according to the standard rules. In the case of a 1, the player that performed the Skill Check must spend a Plus Ultra Point (if they have one to spend) and reroll the Skill Check. The value generated by the reroll (after the appropriate modifiers are applied) must be taken as is, even if the resulting reroll is another 1. The reroll cannot be modified by any additional Plus Ultra Points, though any technique or enhancement that would normally affect the value of a player's roll still applies.

Thematically, Naturals represent the ebb and flow of a character's relationship with the unseen forces that imbue their Quirks with the power that they employ every day. In rolling a 20, the character might suddenly feel mystifyingly encouraged by their decisions and carry them out with an optimism they might not usually possess. In rolling a 1, the character might sudden have their instinct betray them and they might need to fill the newfound mental breach with a overclocking of their inherent powers, often to significant consequences.

Naturals only apply outside of combat.

### Ties

In the heat of battle, heroes and villains strive to perform at their best. Lost in the frenzy of blows, they easily find themselves in a bitter struggle to overpower each other but neither side seems to want to give with so much on the line.

A **Tie** is what occurs when two characters make opposing Skill Checks or similar rolls and the resulting values (after applying the appropriate modifiers) turn out to be the same.

Ties and their consequences are felt most intensely within the *Path of the Hero* system in instances of combat. In combat, there is a designated **Attacker**, the character that initiated the offensive maneuver, often on their turn, and a designated **Defender**, the character that is the target of the offensive maneuver.

If the defender has taken the Dodge Defensive Action against the attacker's offensive maneuver and ties, the defender takes half of the damage normally dealt by the attacker's offensive maneuver and is able to immediately expend up to half of their movement speed.

If the defender has taken the Tank Defensive Action against the attacker's offensive maneuver and ties, the defender takes half of the damage dealt by the attacker's offensive maneuver but does not gain advantage on their next action as they would with a normally successful Tank Defensive Action.

If the attacker is utilizing a Mental Technique against the defender as part of their offensive maneuver and ties, the defender takes half damage but does not suffer a penalty to their action economy as they would normally as specified in the description of the technique being used by the attacker.

The resolution of a tie between two competing Skill Checks made to sway the outcome of a non-damage-dealing action is left to the discretion of the Gamemaster, as the consequences of a tie in such thematic moments can affect one, many, or all parties involved in the tie and help or hinder them based on what might be expected from the natural progression of the competing actions.

In situations where one or more characters are making Skill Checks against a static threshold set by the Gamemaster, the tie always goes to the Gamemaster.

## Damage



### Damage Dice

Check [Technique and Freeform Damage](Technique%20and%20Freeform%20Damage.md) 

### Critical Damage



## States

A **State** is applied to a character when they voluntarily enter into condition-specific sequences that are often prerequisites for maintaining or activating powerful techniques or performing heroic and actionable feats. Each state is unique to the circumstance where it is applicable.

### Concentration

Concentration refers to the attention required to maintain a certain action or technique, and is easily maintained even in the heat of battle. Any technique that has an associated Maintenance Cost is assumed to require concentration on the part of the technique user. Whether any given action requires concentration on the character is up to the gamemaster in that individual situation; therefore, a gamemaster's ruling in one circumstance may not necessarily persist to another.

Concentration may only be broken when the concentrating character is successfully targeted by a Mental Technique or if the concentrating character has an insufficient number of Limit Points needed to maintain their concentration.

### Preparation

A character enters **preparation** when they use a technique or other mechanical function which requires them to spend actions or turns prior to the effects of that mechanical function taking place. This state is thematically encapsulated in moments where characters must muster some internal resource in order to perform an otherwise costly feat of heroism.

Each mechanical function will define the extent of the preparation state and the threshold for its interruption in its specific text.

## Action Economy

The clash between heroes and villains feel like an inconceivable and chaotic brawl between titans to the naked eyes of the civilians around them, but the most prominent and experienced fighters know that combat is instead a delicate dance between adversaries, where a single mistake can result in fatal consequences. In the heat of battle, the ebb and flow is sacred.

Combat within the *Path of a Hero* system is carried out in **Rounds**, each lasting ten (10) in-game seconds, wherein players take **Turns** that encompass their actions within the world. A Round is complete when all players have each taken their Turn to completion. In between the end of one Round and the start of another, the Gamemaster may deem it necessary to switch the focus from Combat to a non-combat situation (especially if other players are not involved in the Combat) or generally provide further exposition for the scene depending on its thematic nature.

A **Turn** is comprised of any combination of actions, reactions, techniques, movements, and specials that a player has at their disposal. A Player is allotted three (3) **Actions** and one (1) **Reaction** at the start of their Turn. In rare cases, a player might afford themselves more Actions or Reactions based on the rules associated with that mechanics.

### Actions

**Actions** (sometimes referred to as **Action Points**) serve as the narrative and mechanical foundation for what a hero (or villain) can do during their Turn in the Instinct Order, acting as the currency that players to manifest their intentions into the game world. Just as heroes (and villain) in *My Hero Academia* must decide whether to engage in combat, help (or harm) a bystander, or focus on a tactical advantage, players must determine how to best utilize their Actions to align with their goals and strategies.

At the start of their Turn, a player has three (3) Actions to use and (1) Reaction. The Actions may be spent to carry out any standard Actions available to any character, regardless of whether or not they possess a Quirk, such as making a freeform melee attack (unarmed, or with a weapon), a freeform ranged attack (with an appropriate weapon), using an item, interacting with objects, or moving. A player may suggest an alternative to constitute the use of their Action at the DM's discretion. In addition, players that possess a character with the means to do so may expend Actions to active and utilize the power of their Quirks through the use of **Techniques**.

### Techniques

**Techniques** are the specialized, high-octane, Quirk-powered abilities that allow players to harness the innate powers in astounding ways. Just as All Might's "United States of Smash" resonates as a symbol of indomitable justice, and Todoroki's "Heaven-Piercing Ice Wall" exemplifies his dual nature, your Techniques are more than just powerful moves—they are the signature expressions of your character's spirit, skill, and aspirations.

%% @TODO: Finish Techniques section content. %%

#### Trained Techniques



#### Freeform Techniques

Freeform Techniques are actions that do not require Limit Cost to activate. A player may only use ONE freeform technique per round of combat. 

### Reactions

A Player may use their one (1) Reaction in place of their normal Defensive Action. A Reaction must be a **Trained Technique** and the types of Reaction Techniques will be detailed in [0320 Creating Techniques](0320%20Creating%20Techniques.md). 

### Instinct Order

Instinct Order is the relative hierarchy of speed and intuition determined by the presence of Heroes and Villains at the start of a Combat instance. At the Gamemaster's announcement, each player makes an Aptitude (or other appropriate Skill Attribute determined by special rules) roll to determine the order in which play will commence throughout a Round. This order holds for the entirety of a Combat instance unless otherwise prompted by the Gamemaster.

### Defensive Actions

**Dodging**

Inflicting a Critical while taking the Dodge Defensive Action yields the player a single free action that they may take immediately after the offensive maneuver made against them concludes. 

**Tanking**

Inflicting a Critical while taking the Tank Defensive Action yields the player a result of all incoming damage that the offensive maneuver made against them would otherwise inflict being negated.

### Movement

| Speed Rank | Combat Speed | Cinematic Speed  |
|------------|--------------|------------------|
| Rank E     | 3 Meters     | 3-6 Meters       |
| Rank D     | 7 Meters     | 6-12 Meters      |
| Rank C     | 15 Meters    | 12-72 Meters     |
| Rank B     | 30 Meters    | 72-108 Meters    |
| Rank A     | 50 Meters    | 108-1500 Meters  |
| Rank S     | 75 Meters    | 1500-5000 Meters |
### Interactions



## Grave Checks

Whenever a character is reduced to 0 health points, they are rendered unconscious. While in this state, they are subject to the following conditions:
- They are no longer able to communicate with others around them.
- Their movement speed is reduced to 0.
- They are no longer able to regain limit points.
- They are no longer able to activate their Quirk or utilize techniques (except where otherwise stated).
- If they are a wielder of a transformation quirk, then their activation state is released if not already inactive.

Unconscious characters retain their place within the Initiative Order although they do not receive any Action Points. The only Action available to an unconscious character is to make a **Grave Check**.

A Grave Check requires that the unconscious player roll an unmodified d10 at the start of their turn. If the resulting value of the Grave Check is a 7 or higher, then the unconscious character recovers and rejoins the fight. Recovered characters regain a number of health points corresponding to the rank of their Spirit, according to the following table:

| Rank | Health Die |
| ---- | ---------- |
| E    | 1d4        |
| D    | 1d6        |
| C    | 1d8        |
| B    | 1d10       |
| A    | 1d12       |
| S    | 1d20       |

****
#questions : Why is the Skill associated with the health points regained from recovery Spirit and not Stamina?
****

If the resulting value of the Grave Check is a 1, then the unconscious character receives a **Grave Counter**. For each Grave Counter that the unconscious character suffers, the threshold to fail the Grave Check increases by 1. Additionally, the threshold to succeed the Grave Check increases by 1. After the unconscious character suffers their 4th Grave Counter, they are pronounced dead.

In the event that a character is rendered unconscious and the residual damage not absorbed by their health points exceeds the bonus health points awarded to them by their Stamina, then the unconscious character must make a Skill Check using their Stamina, using the excess damage as the threshold. If the resulting value of the Skill Check is less than the excess damage, then the unconscious character is pronounced dead.

On their turn, another character may spend an Action Point to assist the unconscious character in recovering. When they do so, the unconscious character is granted a bonus corresponding to the assisting player's Aptitude rank to their Grave Check, according to the following table:

| Aptitude Rank | Bonus to Grave Check      |
| ------------- | ------------------------- |
| E             | +1                        |
| D             | +1d4 (halved, rounded up) |
| C             | +1d6 (halved, rounded up) |
| B             | +1d6                      |
| A             | +2d4                      |
| S             | +1d10                     |

****
#todos : Review Give Grave Counter rules with Cal.
#todos : Review option for tiered assist bonus to Grave Check with Cal.
#questions : Rulebook says: "In order to heal or help stabilize another unconscious character, roll a dice equal to your APT Rank and add that to the fallen unit’s roll." What does this mean?
****

## Downtime



## Range

| Rank  | Meters    |
|-------|-----------|
| Melee | 2 Meters  |
| E     | 5 Meters  |
| D     | 12 Meters |
| C     | 20 Meters |
| B     | 30 Meters |
| A     | 45 Meters |
| S     | 70 Meters |

****

(next: [0320 Creating Techniques](0320%20Creating%20Techniques.md))