Category: [0300 - The Rules of Engagement](0300%20-%20The%20Rules%20of%20Engagement.md)  
Tags: #rules-of-engagement #techniques   
Last Modified: 08-31-2023  
# Crafting Techniques

****

1. [Area of Effect Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#area-of-effects-techniques)
2. [Barrier Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#barrier-techniques)
3. [Buff and Debuff Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#buff-and-debuff-techniques)
4. [Charge Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#charge-techniques)
6. [Draining Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#draining-techniques)
7. [Gadget Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#gadget-techniques)
8. [Healing Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#healing-techniques)
9. [Immobilization Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#immobilization-techniques)
10. [Interpose Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#interpose-techniques)
11. [Medical Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#medical-techniques)
12. [Mental Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#mental-techniques)
13. [Movement Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#movement-techniques)
14. [Physical Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#physical-techniques)
15. [Quirk Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#quirk-techniques)
16. [Reaction Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#reaction-techniques)
17. [Summoning Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#summoning-techniques)
18. [Transformation Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#transformation-techniques)
19. [Trump Cards](Crafting%20Techniques.md#trump-cards)
20. [Weapon Techniques](Crafting%20Techniques.md#weapon-techniques)
## Area of Effect Techniques

## Barrier Techniques

## Buff and Debuff Techniques

| Rank | Buff                | Debuff             |
|------|---------------------|--------------------|
| E    | +1 STAT, +1 DMG     | -1 STAT, -1 DMG    |
| D    | +2 STAT, +1d4 DMG   | -2 STAT, -1d4 DMG  |
| C    | +3 STAT, +1d6 DMG   | -3 STAT, -1d6 DMG  |
| B    | +5 STAT, +1d8 DMG   | -5 STAT, -1d8 DMG  |
| A    | +7 STAT, +1d10 DMG  | -7 STAT, -1d10 DMG |
| S    | +10 STAT, +1d12 DMG | -10 STAT, 1d12 DMG |
## Charge Techniques

## Draining Techniques

## Gadget Techniques

## Healing Techniques

## Immobilization Techniques

## Interpose Techniques

## Medical Techniques

## Mental Techniques

**Mental Healing Techniques**
*temporary hit points*

## Movement Techniques

**Flying Techniques**

**Ground Techniques**

**Digging Techniques**
## Physical Techniques

**Fighting Styles**
## Quirk Techniques

## Reaction Techniques

In the world of *My Hero Academia*, every hero knows that to achieve greatness requires not only a mastery of decisive strategy and cunning, but a tempered intuition to guide them through the chaos that overwhelms even the most robust and thorough plans. With innocents counting on them, allies looking up to them, and villains vying to defeat them, the factor that determines whether the hero lives or dies comes down to his ability to respond without thinking.

A **Reaction Technique** is a special technique type that allows characters to utilize their Quirk or martial abilities when it is no longer their turn. This asynchronous timing engages them even when they are no longer the focus, as a well-intentioned reaction can disrupt pivotal changes in the tide of battle and ensure they remain out of harm's way. Reaction Techniques are often defensively oriented, improving the odds and intensity with which a character is able to avoid the negatives associated with the offensive maneuvers that target them. Reaction Techniques may only be used if a character has not yet used their Reaction in the combat round in some other fashion.

**Dodge-focused & Tank-focused Reaction Techniques**

Reaction Techniques can augment the Defensive Actions through the provision of bonuses applied directly to the respective rolls made for them. The cost to activate the Reaction Technique is determined by its Rank. The application of these bonuses are the same for either Defensive Action type, however the Reaction Technique may only target one or the other at the time of the technique's definition. Additionally, there is a difference in how the bonuses are calculated based on whether the technique is being deployed by a character with an Emitter Quirk or not.

In the case of a non-Emitter Quirk character using a Reaction Technique of this type, the Defensive Action receives a static bonus according to the table found on the *Buff & Debuff Techniques* section. Emitter Quirk characters apply the value generated by a roll of their Quirk Die.

This means that Emitters typically feature more powerful uses of such techniques as the potency of their Reaction Technique is not determined by its Rank, but rather the denomination of the Quirk Die that they have. However, a Tier 4 Emitter Quirk character does not gain any benefit from the use of this kind of technique since they are not afforded any denomination of Quirk Die. 

Non-Emitter Quirk characters may only increase the potency of their Reaction Technique via the upgrading of the Rank (thereby increasing the cost of the technique at the same time as the bonus value increases).

**Counters**

A **Counter** is a type of Reaction Technique that focuses on allowing a character to retaliate against an enemy that makes them the target of an offensive maneuver. With this technique, the character that deploys it rolls as if they are making a normal Defensive Action (therefore, they choose Tank or Dodge). The value generated is then checked against the To Hit of the offensive maneuver that targeted them. If the value is higher than the To Hit, the character may deal damage equal to the Technique Rank Damage table according to the Rank of the Technique. The Limit Point cost is determined according to the standard rules. A Counter may use Weapons damage and bonuses. 

**Reflects**

Reflected status effects take an action to dismiss.

**Interpose**

## Summoning Techniques

## Synchronization Techniques

## Transformation Techniques

## Trump Cards

## Weapon Techniques

****

(next: [Harnessing the Limit Pool](Harnessing%20the%20Limit%20Pool.md))